Focused students have EXTREME bursts of attention/focus but in a short amount of time. This means do NOT passively study, because Output = Focus * Time. 
Ideally, having three short yet intense bursts of extreme focus will achieve the same amount of work as a 12-hour long yet passive yet boring study sesh.
It is crucial though to take breaks in between these study bursts.
Case Study: a rhode scholar parties harder than you can imagine and is still a rhode scholar! Why? because he works EFFICIENTLY, NOT works longer nor harder

Chapter 1:
Take the time to create a detailed, schedule every single day. It will only take 5 minutes but it's worth it. You can craft one with just a sheet of paper.
You should create time-periods for each specific task (like lunch from 11:30pm - 12:30 pm). For multiple short-lived tasks, combine them but in an extended period of time.
Be pessimistic in how much time you allot yourself. Include break time, and make the time periods longer than you predict them to be.
^ Why? Because giving yourself more time to do things does indeed make the task less daunting, so you're more likely to complete it. PLUS, it is crucial to have time for breaks.
On the right hand side, include "Things to Remember" This can include any future plans or just upcoming dates that you should remember. 
Important: you will include ALL of these Things to Remember in a future time slot

It's important that the calendar is supposed to be flexible. If you can't make a plan because of the unexpected event that happens at the moment, don't worry. Move it to the next day. That is typical of a productive student planner.
^ Just make sure you are still completing the majority of your tasks for at least 5/7 days.

Whenever an unexpected to-do arises (such as a test announcement), IMMEDIATELY write it in a RANDOM PIECE OF PAPER, NOT in your Things to Remember Column unless your calendar is already out.
^Why? Realistically, you are not going to have the energy to take out a calendar. It is much more mindless and efficient to write it down later. Therefore, you are much more likely to actually write it down realistically.

If you have too ma ny to-dos, simply push them for a future date by moving them to the Things to Remember Column. This column will always stick, and you will need to re-write them every time.

Chapter 2:
You can NEVER get rid of procrastination. However, most successful students MINIMIZE procrastination, though they still feel it but not as strong.

Technique 1: Work Progress Journal
Basically, add onto your detailed schedule as above. A spiral notebook helps for this. Then, if you do NOT complete any of your most important tasks for the day, you must explain why you didn't complete it. 
Why? If it's repeated rationalizations, it will expose you and blow your ego. It's also a way to abuse the written commitment persuasion tactic.

Technique 2: Feed the Machine
Make sure you replenish your brain physically with proper care and nutrients to maximize your mental energy.
1. Drink Water Constantly - always have a water bottle near you. Increases your mental energy and keeps you awake
2. Monitor your caffeine intake carefully. Too much caffeine can make you unconcentrated
3. Treat food as a source of energy, not satisfaction. Choose foods that give you long-term energy not short-term, like veggies, fruit, wghole grain, lean protein, granola, etc. No refined carbs, because you'll crahs.
4. Don't skip meals. Eat fast but never skip because you'll end up hungry.

Technique 3: Make an event out of the worst tasks
Out of the hardest, most grueling tasks like starting a college essay, make it larger than it's supposed to be.
Tell everyone that you will be forced to go to this terrible event, using commitment devices to motivate you to achieve it
TRAVEL and mish to a NOVEL yet quiet place (a new place you've never visited), so you will feel stimulated yet not willing to go home since you mished to a far away place
-Tip: should be farther than walking distacne to your campus

Techinique 4: Make habits on specific work
Create habits of specific work to increase your productivity and make it extremely hard to procrastinate.
Simply associate a specific event to leverage you and remind you to do your work. Use previous habits to lead the way to additional habits.
Ex: On Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, for an hour after your morning class, spend an hour going to the gym or spend an hour working on History homework.

Technique 5: Choose your hard days
PRE-PLAN all of your hard days (days where you strictly study due to a final/midterm). The secret is to plan them IN ADVANCE and to really hype them out.
Make sure that there are NO TWO hard days in a row. Ensure that you have relaxing activites sandwiched before and after each hard day.
Tell your friends that you will be busy on the hard days (Technique 3, using commitment devices as well), and to not talk to you on that day.

Chapter 3: 
When: The best time is to study early, as it's not only when you can plan short intense bursts of period in between classes, but ALSO because it is when your mind is most focused and energized.
If you have an hour break in between classes in the morning, utilize that time at your advantage to go to the library and study, it'll really help you get your work done.
Essentially, cram as much as work as you can in the morning and afternoon.

Where: The best is in isolation. By isolated spots, I mean to really be by yourself. The best is a less-popular library, small secret libraries, a small coffee shop that's unpopulated, or a local public library.
The isolation main and only purpose is to REMOVE ALL DISTRACTIONS.
Most important, make sure you have MULTIPLE locations.
Why? ^ 1. You don't burn out 2. You have multiple spots at your arsenal

How long:
No more than one hour at a time without break.
Ideally, studies show that studying for 40-50 minute increments with a 5-10 minute break maximizes retention.
In fact, most successful students study with breaks like this.

Part 2:
Rote review (merely re-reading the same text over and over) is NOT good studying. Use different study methods, because it's extremely boring, painful, and ineffective.
Make sure you label your examinations like this:
0-5% worth of grade - Tiny Quiz
5% to 15% worth of grade - Quiz
>15% worth of grade - Exam
Do NOT spend too much time/effort on quizzes. They are checkups, not comprehensive evaluations so NO need to go too hardcore on the review. 
Tiny Quizzes require little to no preparation, so review a little bit.
Quizzes require some preparation, but doesn't require mastering every topic.
Tests require heavy review and focus.

Chapter 1:
